---
layout: post
title: "Course Schedule"
description: 
date: 2019-08-20
tags: ASL3370 schedule
comments: true
---

(This schedule is subject to frequent changes and updates; please check back often.)

## [Contexting interpretive ‘work’ and de-personalizing feedback](../08/contexting-work-and-feedback.html)

<small>
Thursday, 22 August<br>
Tuesday, 27 August<br>
Thursday, 29 August
</small>

One of the greatest struggles of the professional signed language interpreting field is the difficulty practitioners have in depersonalizing work product. Let’s break that cycle; interpreting evaluation is a scientific process concerned with gathering data and scrutinizing equivalency of message from source to target, not adjectival commentary on the interpreter’s ‘goodness’ or ‘badness.’ Let’s do this.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-secondary">Due</span> **22 August**: [Student/teacher contract due](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScc7I93RYboaT955frbKYUYDXFQIc4ISzEGw3t9kQAdyeU7Eg/viewform) (due by 11:59 pm)

## Pre-assessment

<small>
Thursday, 29 August<br>
</small>

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-warning">Exam</span> **29 August**: Produce unrehearsed spoken language interpretation (source text in [GoREACT class site](https://app.goreact.com/login); due by 11:59 pm)

## [Intralingual language development](../08/intralingual-language-development.html)

<small>
Tuesday, 3 September<br>
Thursday, 5 September<br>
Tuesday, 10 September<br>
Thursday, 12 September
</small>

Developing competent spoken English skills is something you’ve been working on for decades. Now let’s combine comprehension, context, and a little bit of brain muscle to create equivalency in an interpreting event.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-success">Video</span> **10 September**: Video 1 (choose any from class text; submit in [GoREACT](https://app.goreact.com/login))

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentations</span> **3, 5, 10, 12 September**: In-class impromptu presentation

## [Interpreting in teams](../08/teaming.html)

<small>
Tuesday, 17 September<br>
Thursday, 19 September
</small> 

Because not all interpreters and interpretations are alike, our expectations are idiosyncratic: we need to be not only mentally (linguistically) but also socially and emotionally stable and prepared to work with others in producing interpretations and transliterations. Intepreting is a <em>public</em> activity; it’s done in the company of others. We’ll formally only spend a short time on this topic, but use what we find all semester long. Working in groups, after you’ve gone through all the readings, we’ll spend a class identifying the best practices we’ve found.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentations</span> **19 September**: In-class findings presentation

## [Organization and analysis of an interpreted text](../08/organization-analysis-interpreted-text.html)

<small>
Tuesday, 24 September<br>
Thursday, 26 September<br>
Tuesday, 1 October<br>
Thursday, 3 October<br>
Tuesday, 8 October<br>
</small>

“Which road do I take?,” Alice asked.
“Where do you want to go?,” the Chesire Cat replied.
“I don’t know,” Alice answered.
“Then,” said the Cat, “it doesn’t matter.”
(Lewis Carroll, *Alice in Wonderland*)
Cognitive organization of a text can help interpreters mentally plan out (roadmap and signpost; Mindess, 2006) and know where the intent of a text or discourse is going.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-success">Video</span> **1 October**: Video 2 (choose any from class text; submit in [GoREACT](https://app.goreact.com/login))

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentation</span> **24, 26 September; 1, 3, 8 October**: In-class impromptu presentation

## [Attending and listening](../08/attending-and-listening.html)

<small>
Thursday, 10 October<br>
Tuesday, 15 October<br>
<span><s>Thursday, 17 October</s></span><br>
Tuesday, 22 October<br>
Thursday, 24 October
</small> 

We’ll focus on... well, focusing. Listening for intent and context is more than just looking for signs that are recognizable. Listening and attending includes both how interpreters access source materials but then also convert messages through comprehension.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-success">Video</span> **22 October**: Video 3 (choose any from class text; submit in [GoREACT](https://app.goreact.com/login))

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentations</span> **10, 15, 22, 24 October**: In-class impromptu presentation

## Midterm evaluation

<small>
Tuesday, 15 October<br>
</small>

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-secondary">Due</span> Complete the midterm evaluation (due by 11:59 am)

## Field trip

<small>
To be determined
</small>

We’re planning to visit the local chapter of Toastmasters to see what public speaking practice looks like. Fulfills one of the Community Exposure assignments we’re doing this semester.

## [Managing memory issues in an interpretation](../08/managing-memory-issues.html)

<small>
Tuesday, 29 October<br>
Thursday, 31 October<br>
Tuesday, 5 November<br>
Thursday, 7 November<br>
Tuesday, 12 November<br>
</small> 

Human cognition is terribly unique and idiosyncratic and yet more understood now than every before. Understanding what the brain does during an interpreting event leads to better equivalent work product.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-success">Video</span> **24 March**: Video 4 (choose any from class text; submit in [GoREACT](https://app.goreact.com/login))

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentations</span> **5, 10, 12, 17, 19 March**: In-class impromptu presentation

## [Constructing message and meaning](../08/constructing-and-reformulating-message.html)

<small>
Thursday, 14 November<br>
Tuesday, 19 November<br>
Thursday, 21 November<br>
<span><s>Tuesday, 26 November</s></span><br>
<span><s>Thursday, 28 November</s></span><br>
Tuesday, 3 December
</small> 

This section is intended to focus on the DNA and morphology of message. Colonomos’ work point interpreters towards understanding the complex modular parts of what people say, the context, demography, history and etymology: everything that frames and shapes an intended message.

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-success">Video</span> **3 December**: Video 5 (choose any from class text; submit in [GoREACT](https://app.goreact.com/login))

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-info">Presentations</span> **14, 19 November; 3 December**: In-class impromptu presentation

## (Final) Post-assessment and other assignment submissions

<small>
Friday, 6 December
</small>

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-warning">Exam</span> [Produce unrehearsed spoken language interpretation](https://app.goreact.com/login) **due by Friday, 6 December**, 11:59 pm

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-secondary">Due</span> [Annotated bibliography](https://uvu.instructure.com) **due by Friday, 6 December**, 11:59 pm

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-secondary">Due</span> [Toastmasters field trip observations](https://uvu.instructure.com) **due by Friday, 6 December**, 11:59 pm

<span class="c-badge c-badge-pill c-badge-secondary">Due</span> [Community exposure(s) observations](https://uvu.instructure.com) **due by Friday, 6 December**, 11:59 pm
